CHAPTER I

CHANCE OF MORPHEUS

From the "dig-in" of the snow-bank where he had spent the blizzard
night in comparative comfort, Constable La Marr of the Royal Mounted
looked out upon a full-grown day.  The storm that had driven him to
shelter had passed, or at least was taking a rest.  For once he had
overslept and where days, even in winter's youth, are but seven hours
long, the fault caused him chagrin.

That a "Mountie" in close pursuit of a murder suspect should have
made such a slip was disconcerting even to one so young as La Marr.
He found little consolation in the fact that when he had enlisted in
the Force he had not dreamed of an Arctic assignment, but had
expected one of those gayly uniformed details in Montreal or Quebec.

His concern, if the news ever leaked out, was of the reaction upon
his immediate superior, Staff-Sergeant Russell Seymour.  But small
chance of that leakage unless he himself weakened--or
strengthened--and tested the adage that confession is good for the
soul.  Seymour, a grimly handsome wolf of the North in command of the
detachment post at Armistice, was now two months absent on an irksome
detail of snow patrol, one that should have fallen to the rookie
constable, except for his inexperience.

La Marr stamped out of the snow-hole that had sheltered him and
restored circulation by vigorous gymnastics.  Light as was his trail
equipment, being without sled or dogs, he had not suffered, having
learned rapidly the first protective measures of the Arctic "cop."

He was about to make a belated breakfast from his emergency pack when
his glance chanced toward the north and focused upon a furred figure
headed down the snow ruff on a course that would bring him within
easy reach.

"Aye, not so bad!" he congratulated audibly.  "I get me man by
sleeping on his trail!"

He chuckled as he watched the snow-shoed Eskimo stumble directly
toward the trap that was set for him by chance of Morpheus.

Yet the young constable took no chances.

A murder had been committed two days before at Armistice, almost
within the shadow of the police post.  The crime seemed a
particularly atrocious one to him from the fact that a white man, a
trader's clerk, had been the victim.  Any Eskimo who would go to such
lengths was either desperate or insane.  La Marr felt called upon to
be very much on guard as he waited within the shelter of the
snow-trap.

He had not a doubt that the native approaching was his quarry, any
more than he had of that quarry's guilt.  He wondered if the slogan
of the Mounted applied in case one had to deal with an insane native.
It would be easy--and providentially safe--to wing the oncomer,
undoubtedly unaware of the nearness of a Nemesis.

But the training at the Regina school of police that a "Mountie"
never fires first is strict and impressive.  Constable La Marr could
not take a pot shot even with the intent only to wound the flounderer.

Next moment surprise caught him--surprise that Avic, the red-handed
culprit, was fighting his way back to camp.  But wait, he'd have to
revise that thought for this particular murder had been done in a
peculiar native fashion that shed no blood.  Anyhow, why should one
so obviously guilty of killing a white man in a bronze man's country
be headed toward the police post from which he had made a clean
get-away?

No answer came to La Marr.  He merely waited.

The Eskimo floundered on.

The constable's concealment was neat enough in a country where all is
white.  It was better even than bush or shrub, for they were so rare
as to be open to suspicion.  At just the right second he lunged
forward and took the native entirely by surprise.  The two went over
in a flurry of snow.

For a moment the Eskimo struggled fiercely, possibly thinking that
his fur-clad assailant was an Arctic wolf.  But his resistance ceased
on recognizing he was in human grip.

La Marr yanked his captive to his feet and searched for weapons,
finding none.  Then he remembered the rules of the Ottawa "red book"
and pronounced the statutory warning.

"Arrest you, Avic, in the name of the king; warn you that anything
you say may be used against you.  D'ye understand?"

As he asked this last, which is not a part of the official warning,
he realized that Avic did not.

"Barking sun-dogs, why didn't the good Lord provide one language for
everybody?" he complained.  "Anyway, there ain't much chance of my
understanding anything you may say against yourself.  I'll tell it
all over to you when I get you to the post.  Now we'll mush!"

"Ugh--yes," grunted the Eskimo, seemingly undisturbed.

The young constable was puzzled by the prisoner's demeanor.  He
stared at the man, whose stolid expression was heightened by thick
lips and high cheek-bones.  Perhaps the native did not know he was in
the hands of the police and on his way to pay for the dreadful crime.

Raising his _parkee_, La Marr disclosed the scarlet tunic which he
wore underneath.  It was the color of authority in the far North; no
Eskimo who ever had seen it before could doubt it.

There was no gleam of intelligence in the dark eyes that stared from
behind narrow, reddened lids.  There dawned upon the constable a
possibility.  The Eskimo was snow blind under the curse of the
Northland winter which falls alike to native and outlander, at times.
That would explain his back-tracking.  Rather than wander in circles
over the white blanketed tundra until a miserable death came to his
rescue, he was hurrying back, while a glimmer of sight yet remained,
to take his chances with the mystery called "Law."

"Not a bad choice," thought La Marr as he stepped out ahead to break
the trail that the night's blizzard had covered.

After locking his prisoner in the tiny guard room, a part of the
one-story frame structure that sheltered the small detachment, the
constable started for the post of the Arctic Trading Company a few
hundred yards away.  He was young, La Marr, and pleased with himself
over his first capture of importance.  He anticipated satisfaction in
discussing the arrest with Harry Karmack, the only other white man at
Armistice now that Oliver O'Malley had passed out.

But he did not get across the yard.

The report of a rifle from down the frozen river, which flowed north,
halted him.  He saw a dog team limping in over the crust,
unmistakably the detachment's own bunch of malamutes.  The man at the
gee-pole could be none other than Sergeant Seymour, returned at last
from the long Arctic patrol.

Here was a vastly more important auditor for his triumph.  He sprang
forward to offer salute and greetings and to help with the malamutes,
for an Eskimo dog team always arrives with a flourish that is
exciting and troublesome.

Once the animals were off to their kennels and before Seymour fairly
had caught his breath from the last spurt into camp, the young
constable was blurting out the details of Oliver O'Malley's untimely
end.

"But I've captured the murderer!" La Marr exclaimed in triumph.
"I've got Avic, the Eskimo, hard and fast in the guard room.  Come
and see."

With interest the sergeant followed the lead of the one and only man
in his command.

The native had been squatted on the floor with his back against the
wall near a stove, the sides of which glowed like a red apple.  On
their entry, he rose muttering in gutturals that meant nothing to the
constable.  Seymour gave one glance of recognition, then turned.

"You've got a murderer, sure enough, La Marr," he said with that
slowness of speech so seldom accelerated as to be an outstanding
characteristic.  "But his name's not Avic and by no possibility could
he have had anything to do with the killing of O'Malley."

"Then who the hell----," the constable began.

"This is Olespe of the Lady Franklin band.  For three weeks he's been
my prisoner.  On the sled out there are the remains of the wife he
killed in an attack of seal-fed jealousy."

The chagrin of Constable La Marr was written in gloom across a face
so lately aglow.




CHAPTER II

THE ESKIMO WAY

Grim, indeed, had been Sergeant Seymour's sledded return to his
detachment.  For more than two hundred miles across the frozen tundra
he had driven his ghastly load--the murdered woman wrapped in deer
skins after the native custom, sewed up in a tarp and lashed to a
_komatik_, the Labrador sled that gives such excellent service on
cross-country runs.  All this, that the inquest which the Dominion
requires, regardless of isolation, might be held in form and the case
against the uxoricide assured.

And out ahead, unarmed, and under "open" arrest, had mushed the
murderer himself, breaking trail toward his own doom.  Often in the
whirling snow, Olespe had been beyond his captor's sight.  But never
had he wavered from the most feasible course to Armistice; always had
he been busily making camp when the dogs and their official driver
caught up at the appointed night-stop.  No white man could have been
entrusted with such "fatigue duty" under like circumstances.  Three
weeks of such opportunity for remorse must have been too much.

But Seymour was not thinking now of this recent ordeal.

The case of Olespe, except for the formalities of coroner's inquest,
commitment and trial was settled.  The plight of his unhappy
constable held the pity of the sergeant, always considerate.

"I'm not blaming you, Charley," he assured.  "Until you've been up
here a few years, all Eskimos look right much alike."

"Can't I start after the real Avic at once," pleaded the constable.
"I'll make no second mistake."

La Marr was as eager as a hound held in leash after its nose has
rubbed the scent.  But he could not, just then, bring himself to
confess his over-sleeping.

Seymour did not answer at once, but set about taking off his heavy
trail clothes and getting into the uniform of command.  He was a
large built man, but lean of the last ounce of superfluous flesh
owing to the long patrols that he never shirked.

The scarlet tunic became him.  Across the breast of it showed lines
of vari-colored ribbons, for his service in France had been as
valorous as vigorous.  He had gone into the war from his Yukon post
and, almost directly after the armistice, back into the Northwest
Territories to establish one of the new stations of the Mounted in
the Eskimo country.

The green constable chafed under the silence, but he did not make the
mistake of thinking it due to slow thinking.  With Seymour many had
erred in that direction to their sorrow.  The sergeant certainly was
slow in speech, but when he spoke he said something.  He might seem
tardy in action, but once started he was as active as a polar bear
after a seal.

"No hurry about taking after this Avic," he said at last.  "Likely
he'll not travel far this double-thermometer weather."  The reference
was to a jocular fable of the region that to get the temperature one
had to hitch two thermometers together.  "At worst he can't get clear
away--no one ever does, except when old man Death catches him first.
We'll hold our inquest, then I'll issue a warrant."

"And detail me to serve it?" La Marr's question had that breathless
interrogation point of secret self-accusation.

To Seymour's thin lips came that whimsical smile which transformed
his whole expression, despite its blanket of beard.  To a student of
expression, this would have shown the tenderness of a woman to be
concealed beneath the life-hardened mask.  His grimness melted like
snow beneath the caress of a Chinook wind; yet warning remained that
this gentleness was not open to imposition.

"Right-o, Charlie," he promised.  "I've made mistakes in my day and
been thankful for the chance to rectify them.  You're nominated to
bring in whoever is named in the warrant after the inquest.  Let's
go."

He put on a pea-jacket, on the sleeves of which the stripes of his
rank stood out in deep yellow.  On a thatch of towsled, brownish hair
he settled the fur cap proscribed in the regulations for winter wear.

Outside they first attended the disposal of the sled.  Without
telling the post's native hostler the grim nature of their load, they
saw it placed in a shed which had the temperature of a morgue.

Adjoining the police buildings on the south was the establishment of
the Arctic Trading Company, Ltd.  This was a low but substantially
built structure of timber and stone, also facing the frozen river.
The "Mounties" entered the storm door which gave upon the factor's
quarters, with the intention of divorcing Harry Karmack from his book
and pipe long enough to accompany them to the scene of the local
crime.

"Dear eyes, but it's glad to see you home again, Serg.," was the
trader's greeting, as he arose from his chair beside an "airtight
burner" and extended his hand for a hearty grip.  "Things have come
to a pretty pass in the territories when the 'Skims get to biting the
hands that are feeding them."

Seymour met this comment with a grave nod.  Like others of the Force
on Arctic detail, he was surprised at what approached an epidemic of
murderous violence among their Eskimo charges, in general a kindly
and docile people.

A prepossessing individual was Harry Karmack, not at all the typical
trader.  He was dark, from a strain of French blood in his Canadian
make-up, with laughing eyes and a handsome mouth.  As he seldom took
the winter trail, he shaved daily "so as not to let the howling North
get the better of me," as he liked to put it.  His smooth cheeks
contrasted sharply with the bearded ones of the officers, their
growth cultivated for protection on the snow patrols.  Generally
Karmack wore tweeds over his powerful frame and a bright tie beneath
the collar of his flannel shirt.  At that, he was a seasoned
sour-dough and a sharp trader, respected and feared by the natives.

"What do you think's got into the blood of the breed all of a
sudden?" he asked.

"We've handed them too many rifles, for one thing," offered Seymour
slowly.  "But don't you worry, the Mounted will get the deluded
creatures in hand.  Will you come with us for a look at the O'Malley
scene?"

Karmack reached for his furs.

"If you don't," he remarked, a severe note in his voice, "you scarlet
soldiers won't be any safer than us traders.  When I think of young
O'Malley, one of the finest chaps I ever knew, struck down here at a
police post----"

A catch in his voice stopped him.  Taking a battery lantern from a
cupboard beside the doorway, he signified he was ready for the said
inspection.

La Marr led the way to the scene of the crime--a stone hut half
buried in the snow.  At the door he broke the R.C.M.P. seal which he
placed there before setting out on his futile pursuit of the suspect.

"Nothing was disturbed, sir," said the constable in a hushed voice.
"Everything is as Karmack and I found it when we came to investigate
why O'Malley did not return to the store."

They stepped out of the gathering dusk into a windowless room.  The
roof was so low as to cause the shortest of them to stoop.  The
trader pushed the button on his lantern and raised it.

Across the cave-like room, which was bare of furniture after the
Eskimo fashion, Seymour stared.  There, in a sitting posture on a
sleeping bench, was all that was mortal of the assistant factor.

In life, O'Malley had been a handsome youth of pronounced Irish type.
Sudden death had wrought so few changes that the sergeant had
difficulty in believing that he looked on other than a sleeping
fellow human.  A dankness, as of a tomb, served to convince him.

The victim's head rested against the back wall of the hut; his
crossed feet upon a deerskin floor covering.  Clutched in one hand
was a black fox pelt.  Upon the sleeping bench beside him lay one of
silver.  Both looked to be unusually fine skins.  Presumably, some
dispute over the price of the prizes was the motive of the crime.

Karmack stepped closer with the light; indicated by gesture a knotted
line of seal skin around the victim's throat, the end dangling down
over his _parkee_.

"The Eskimo way!" muttered the trader brokenly.

The shudder that passed through Seymour's wiry frame was not observed
by the companions of the inspection.  No more was it caused by the
untimely fate of Oliver O'Malley.




CHAPTER III

COMPLICATION ASTOUNDING

As is the silken kerchief to the Latin garroter, so is the Ugiuk-line
to the Eskimo bent upon strangulation.  Strong reason had Sergeant
Seymour of the Mounted to realize the possibilities in the clutch of
the stout cord made from the skin of a bearded seal.

Although he had made no mention of the fact in Karmack's quarters,
when the trader pronounced warning that the out-of-hand Eskimos soon
would be clutching for the throats of the wearers of the scarlet,
already had they clutched at his.  The vivid memory of his narrow
escape had brought his involuntary shudder at sight of the sinister
drape about O'Malley's throat.

On the farthest-North night of his last patrol, he had elected to
sleep in a deserted igloo on the skirts of a village rather than
suffer the stifle of an occupied one.  After midnight he had awakened
from a strangling sensation to find himself in the hands of two
stalwart assailants.  The knot of a similar seal-hide line was
gripping his throat.  He had thrown off the pair only by an effort so
supreme as to leave him too weak to follow them through the snow
tunnel into the storm.  Probably he never would know their identity
or be able more than to guess at their motive as one of fancied
revenge.

Seymour did not speak of this now as they stood in the hut of
tragedy.  No more did he mention the news that slowly was filtering
through the North that Corporal Doak, Three River detachment of the
Royal Mounted, and Factor Bender of the Hudson's Bay company post had
been slain in a brutal and treacherous manner.  To spread alarm was
no part of his policy.  But over at the post was the Ugiuk-line that
had been used on him and in his mind was a vivid idea of its practice
in Eskimo hands.

From these--the fearsome souvenir and the shuddering memory--he
suspected that the O'Malley case was not as open-and-shut as it
seemed.  For him, mystery stalked the crime, one that would not be
solved by the apprehension of Avic, the Eskimo.

Silently, he completed his immediate investigation of the crime.  Two
points stood out to confirm the suspicion born of his intimate
knowledge of the Eskimo garroting methods.  Upon the _corpus delicti_
there was absolutely no mark except the sinister purple rim about the
throat and a blood spot beneath the skin where the knot in the seal
line had taken strangle hold.  In the hut there was no sign of a
struggle such as he had put forth to save himself in the igloo, not a
dent in the earthen floor or a skin rug out of place.  Yet, as he
well knew, O'Malley was a powerful youth and of fighting stock!

"Let's have the facts--such as you know."  The sergeant turned
suddenly to Karmack.

"Dear eyes, I should say you shall have them--every one," returned
the trader eagerly.

Despite certain mannerisms and his unusual--for the
outlands--fastidiousness of dress, Karmack was straightforward and
exceedingly matter of fact.

Word from native sources, it seemed, had reached the trading
company's store several days before that Avic was in from his trap
line with fox pelts "worth a fortune," according to Eskimo standards.
He had borrowed this hut in which they now stood in the outskirts of
the town from a relative and had sent the native for the makings of a
"party," or _potlatch_.  The hunter himself had not appeared in camp
or sent any direct word to Karmack that he had fox skins for sale.
He had no debit on the books of the Arctic company, so the reasonable
supposition of his aloofness was that he meant to drive a hard
bargain.

Skilled in barter with the natives, Karmack said he had countered by
betraying no interest in the arrival of the aloof hunter.  He had
felt confident that, given time, Avic would run short of funds for
entertaining and market his catch at a reasonable figure.  But, at
length, had come disturbing rumors over his native "grape-vine."
Avic had heard, the rumor went, that the Moravian Mission has
established a new trade store at Wolf Lake, near the big river--the
mighty Mackenzie.  He was excited by tales of high prices paid there
and was planning to migrate to that market with his prizes.

"It was then," continued Karmack, "that I told O'Malley to mush over
to see this bird and talk him into a good humor.  The young chap had
developed a knack at sign-language barter, although he knew little
Eskimo; I was busy on a bale of furs at the store.  He was just to
persuade Avic to come into the post where we'd come to some
satisfactory agreement as to price for whatever the 'Skim's traps had
yielded.

"By gar, sir, two hours passed and Oliver did not come back, nor was
there any sign of the hunter.  The mission shouldn't have taken him
half an hour, for all in the name of reason that the native could
have wanted was for us to come to him with an invitation.  I began to
get anxious and started out to see what was what.  Meeting La Marr
out front, I asked him to come along with me, still with no
apprehension.  We found what you yourself have seen--exactly that and
nothing more."

He paused for a moment with his emotion, then: "Holy smoke, man, if I
had known what would eventuate, I'd never have sent him but gone
myself.  They're afraid of me, these confounded huskies, and I'd
grown to love that boy as a brother!"

"What do you know about O'Malley, Karmack--how he came into the
territories--what he'd done in the provinces--all that sort of
thing?"  Seymour asked the disjointed question seemingly satisfied
with the other's preliminary statement.

The trader was silent a moment, thinking.

"Not a great deal, come to think of it," he said, before his
hesitation had become pronounced.  "A tight-mouthed lad, Oliver, when
it came to his own affairs.  He hails from Ottawa and was sent out by
the president of the Arctic Trading Company.  Brought a letter from
the big chief telling me to make a trader out of him, if possible.
Evidently his people have money or influence.  Perhaps there's some
politics in it.  I don't really know, old bean."

"Hadn't been in any jam down below, had he?"

"Oh, rather not--not that sort at all.  May have seen a bit of
Montreal or Quebec and perhaps had crossed the home bridge to Hull,
where it's a trifle damp, you know, but nothing serious, I'm certain.
The big chief never would have sent me a blighter."

The sergeant asked for the victim's next of kin and who should be
notified.

"Oliver never spoke of his family," answered the factor.  "Had a
picture or two on the packing box he used for a bureau, but we never
discussed them.  Said to notify the head office if anything went
wrong with him.  Dear eyes, the lad was peculiar in some ways.  You'd
think----"

The sergeant's interest seemed not to lie in the trader's thoughts.
He had two inquests on his hands, to say nothing of the capture of
Avic of the foxes.  For the moment forgotten was the fact that he had
promised Constable La Marr this detail.  Moreover, there remained
that suspicion, born from his own narrow escape from the Ugiuk-line,
that there was more behind the murder than appeared on the surface.
He led the way from the hut; waited until La Marr had affixed another
police seal on the door, then moved ahead into the main trail, a
sled-wide path which camp traffic kept beaten down between the banks
of snow.

A shout from down-trail startled them.  From out of the increasing
dusk, bells jangling, bushed tails waving like banners, dashed a dog
team dragging a light sled.  Wondering, they flattened against the
snow to give gangway.  The arrival of a strange team at that time of
year was an event.

The sled was braked to a halt a few yards down the trail.  A tall
driver, slim despite an envelopment of furs, sprang from the basket
and waited for them to come up.

"I thought I recognized a uniform in passing--and I need direction."

The voice sounded clear as a bell on the evening frost and
unmistakably feminine.  Moreover, it carried none of the accent
peculiar to the half-breed mission-trained women who spoke English.
They looked closer into a face of pure white and eyes that might have
been brushed into the pallor with a sooty finger.

A white woman in Armistice--a young and comely girl of their own
race!  Think how incredible it must seem to three who had settled
down to an October-April winter of isolation.

"I'm Sergeant Seymour, of the Mounted, in charge of this detachment,"
offered the policeman, for once speeding his speech.  "Who're you
looking for, ma'am?"

"I must find Oliver O'Malley's fur trading store.

"And who might be seeking our young trader?"  The sergeant kept from
his voice any hint of the dread that had clutched him.

"I'm Moira O'Malley of British Columbia--his sister."

This astounding complication left the three men speechless, glad for
the dusk that helped mask the consternation that must be written on
their faces.




CHAPTER IV

BEST OF BAD BUSINESS

In his grown-up life, Sergeant Seymour had met a procession of
emergencies.  Seldom had he failed to do the right and proper
thing--the best for all concerned.  But never had he faced a more
difficult proposition than that presented by the young woman who now
faced him on the trail, awaiting news of the brother she had
journeyed so far to join.

When he thought of what lay in the hut they had just replaced under
Mounted Police seal, he was distressed to the quick.  When he
pondered the distress and disappointment that must be hers when she
learned the truth, that hidden strain of kindness within him promptly
interposed barrier against his blurting out the facts, police
fashion.  He felt that he must temporize.

"You've come to the right camp, Miss O'Malley, but your brother won't
be in to-night.  In the morning----.  But surely you did not mush
from the Mackenzie alone?"

A small sigh, doubtless of disappointment at the further delay,
passed her lips; but no exclamation came.  Evidently she was a
self-contained young person.

No, she explained readily, she had not come alone.  The Rev. Luke
Morrow and his wife were behind with another sled and they had
traveled only from Wolf Lake.  The Rev. Morrow, it seemed, was a
friend and fellow churchman of her father, then stationed at Gold,
British Columbia.

"_Only_ mushed from Wolf Lake!" exclaimed Constable La Marr,
stressing the only, although after one glance into her wonder face he
was hating himself the more for having let the fox hunter get away
from him.

The missionaries were having trail trouble, she continued.  Being so
near journey's end, she had dashed on with her lighter load, hoping
to send her brother to help them into camp, as well as being the
earlier to the reunion.

"Constable La Marr will go out at once," declared the sergeant.  "How
far are they?"

"Scarcely a mile.  We were in sight of your flag when they spilled."

La Marr at once took the back trail, not waiting to go to the post
for the worn police team nor, considering the distance, wishing to
experiment with the girl's strange huskies.

At the moment Moira turned to quell an incipient dog fight; the
sergeant turned quickly to Karmack.

"Not a word to her until after the inquest--until we've a chance to
break it to her gently."

The trader nodded agreement and was introduced when she had
straightened out her team.

"Mr. Karmack was--is your brother's chief here at lonely young
Armistice."

For a moment he held his breath for fear the verb slip would be
noticed and the question of tense raised.  The girl, however, was too
much interested in her surroundings to heed.  The trader helped by
bowing in his best manner and seizing one of her mittened hands in
both his own for a warm greeting.

"A fine lad, Oliver.  Dear eyes, what a fine chap!"

His startling exclamative caused her own eyes to open, but Karmack
merely grinned in amiable fashion.

"I hope you and your friends will accept the poor hospitality of the
trading post, at least for this night," he concluded heartily.
"We'll have plenty of room."

"But isn't there a mission house," began the girl.  "I thought the
Morrows----"

Seymour interrupted.

"Nothing doing, Karmack, with your commercialized hospitality.
They're the first visitors of the winter; I claim them in the name of
the king."  He turned to the girl.  "The mission house hasn't been
opened for months.  We'll make you comfortable at the detachment
barrack--won't have to use the guard room, either.  If you'll draw
rein at the flag pole----"

Her "mush--mush on!" to the dogs rang clear and gave the policeman
further speech with the factor.

"You couldn't have her there to-night, Karmack, in view of what I
have to tell her to-morrow.  Her brother's things scattered all
about----she'd ask too many questions.  Have you tangled in no time."

Again Karmack nodded agreement.  He hadn't thought of that, but only
of being hospitable.  It would have been a treat, though, to
entertain such a charmer under the chaperonage of the missionary
couple.  He would send up some butter for their supper.  That of the
police stores smelled to the heavens.

"That's fine; if ours came from cows, they were athletes," Seymour
replied with a grimace.  "Come up with yourself for coffee.  And I
wish you'd send your man for their dogs and kennel them for the
night.  My malamutes raise Billy-blue when there's any new canine
clan in sniffing distance."

The isolation of Armistice, with its difficulties of transportation,
combined with its newness as a police post caused even the living
room of the detachment to take on a barracks-like austerity.

The scant furniture had been made on the spot and was all too rustic.
There were bunks along three walls and a scattering of skins upon the
rough boards of the floor.  A lithograph of King George, draped with
the colors, occupied a position of honor, the only other decoration
being a print of the widely popular "Eddie," Prince of Wales.  But
logs blazed cheerfully in the stone fireplace and Moira O'Malley,
divested of her outer trail clothes, looked very much at home as she
stood to its warmth.

Not until he returned from the kitchen and the starting of a
"company" supper did Russell Seymour realize in full the startling
beauty of the Irish girl who had come to them at such an unfortunate
moment.  She was within an inch of being as tall as himself as she
stood there on the hearth.  Her lampblack hair, coiled low on her
lovely neck, actually was dressed to show her small ears--and almost
had he forgotten that white women had pairs of such.

A generous mouth, full and red of lips, sent his eyes hastening on
their fleeting inspection when she became aware of his presence in
the kitchen doorway.  If the even rows of pearls behind those lips
had flashed him a smile then, the temptation must have been too
great.  Her slender figure merely hinted at rounding out in its mould
of black blanket-cloth.  He glanced shyly at her ankles--always the
cover-point in his estimate of feminine pulchritude.  She still wore
her trail _muckluks_ of fur, clumsy looking as a squaw's sacking, but
he knew beyond doubt how silk stockings and pumps would become her.

In the eyes he had remarked on the trail, however, Moira's beauty
reached its highest peak, he decided.  They were as blue as the heart
of an Ungova iceberg and as warm as the fire which glowed behind her.
They looked out at him in a friendly, inquiring way from behind
lashes as dark as an Arctic winter night.

And on the morrow those lashes would be wet with tears of grief.  At
the moment he'd gladly have given his hope of heaven to have ushered
a laughing young Oliver O'Malley into the room.

"Decorative, to say the least," she remarked, at last flashing him
the threatened smile.

"Yes, ma'am--what ma'am?" he stammered.

"The uniform of the Mounted as you wear it in that door frame," she
teased him.  "At that, I'd rather see it--you on a horse."

He fell back on the only defense he knew--a pretense at seriousness.
"Up here we're the Royal Canadian _Dis_-Mounted Police, Miss
O'Malley.  We know only two seasons--dog and canoe.  There isn't a
single 'G' Division mount north of Fort Resolution.  By the time I
see a horse again, I'll probably have forgotten how to ride.  I'll
climb aboard Injun style and try to steer him by his tail."

The sergeant was glad to hear the crunch of steps upon the snow.
Under the circumstances, he was in no mood for persiflage and more
than willing to give up the bluff that seemed required.  He stifled a
sigh of relief as La Marr ushered in the missionaries.

A quiet couple, plain, both a trifle frail-looking for Arctic rigors,
the Morrows proved to be.  Serious as they were about "The Work" to
which they were prepared to give years of sacrifice, both were
"regulars" in the life of the North.  Scarcely would they wait to
warm up before insisting on helping their hosts prepare supper.
Moira, too, insisted on having a hand.  The lean-to kitchen refused
to hold them all, however, so Seymour cited the "too many cooks" rule
and discharged all but Mrs. Morrow.

The meal which soon was on the oilcloth was more substantial than
formal.  It consisted of warmed-up soup from a great kettle that held
a week's supply at a time, then sizzling carabou steaks, sour-dough
bread, boiled beans and bacon and, of course, marmalade from distant
England.  It was the sort of menu that "sticks to the ribs"
gratefully after a day in the open.  When Karmack came in for his
promised coffee, he found the post gayer than ever he had known it to
be.  Yet, for three of them buoyancy was as forced as jigging at a
wake.

With tact increased by the fear that some chance slip would disclose
to their lovely guest the news that he felt temporarily should be
kept from her, Sergeant Seymour discovered that the ladies were worn
by their long run in the biting cold.  He threw open the door of
"officers' room," disclosing a wood fire crackling in a Yukon stove
and two bunks spread with blankets fresh from the post's reserve
supply.

"Not much to offer as a guest room, but our one best bet," he
apologized.  "I'll confess frankly that there isn't a single
bunk-sheet in the detachment.  But I think I can guarantee a sound
sleep for both of you.  I'll promise there'll be no breakfast alarm
in the morning, but the makings of a meal will be beside the kitchen
stove when you're ready."

Protest unexpected came from mild-mannered Mrs. Morrow.  "But we're
routing you out of house and home, sergeant," she exclaimed.  With a
nod of her blond head, she indicated an extra uniform which dangled
from a hook against the wall, telltale staff stripes upon its crimson
sleeve.

"A dreadful thing to do," added Moira.  "And on your first night home
after your long patrol!"

That portion of Seymour's face that was not bearded took color from
the tunic that had betrayed him.  "And I thought I'd removed all
trace of the former occupant.  Must be getting color blind."  He
carried the jacket into the living room.  "Don't worry about your
reverend, Mrs. Morrow; he'll bunk as snug as a bug out here with La
Marr and me," he called back.

There was a chorus of good-nights; then the men settled to their
pipes before the fireplace.  After a reasonable wait in silence,
Seymour lowered his voice and communicated to Luke Morrow the news of
the tragedy.  Without reservation, the missionary approved their
course of keeping it from Moira until after the necessary legal
formalities had been carried out.  Then, he said, he would take
charge with a religious reverence that might lighten the blow.

"She's a wonderful woman, Moira O'Malley," he said with deep feeling.
"She endeared herself to everyone who met her over at Wolf Lake.
Utterly wrapped up in her brother, this will be a terrible blow.  I
wonder if----"  He hesitated.  "Would it be admissible, do you think,
to tell her of the death but not the fearful form?"

Glances exchanged by the three laymen showed that they appreciated
the missionary's struggle--kindly thought against strict
truthfulness.  Long had he taught the "truth, the whole truth and
nothing but the truth."  But just now he wavered.

"By gar!  It absolutely would!" Karmack vociferated.

Seymour's quick wit worked out a solution.

"An accident of the Arctic prairies.  I'll trust having that one
marked up against me in the Doomsday Book."

"Blessed are the kindly of heart," murmured the "sky-pilot."  "So be
it!"
